
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chapter 2                    
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                
2.1) - Introduction to Functions
--------------------------------

	A function is a reusable sequence of statements designed to do a particular job. Every c++ program must have the main() function where all code begins to execute, but this can cause confusion on how programs are written. To fix this issue, user defined functions outside of the main() function are created to do certain task. Example: 

	returnType functionName()
		{
			// Function body
			
		{
				
	The first line of the function is called the header which states the return type which will either be int (such as int main) or void. The parentheses tell the compiler we are defining a function. Nested functions are not supported. 


2.2) - Function Return Values (Value-Returning Functions)
---------------------------------------------------------

	Using functions ultimately needs to return values or update values when the function is executed. When you write a user defined function, you can specify the return type so a value will be returned to the caller. A function returning a value is called a value returning function. If a value returning function does not return a value UB will occur.

	But first the function header must specify the return type of the function. Usually for main() it is int. In some cases, user defined functions may not return any value, in such cases the return type is void. In the main functions case, it cannot be called by other functions. 

	When a function exits, depending on the return type or not it may need to use the return keyword to signal to the compiler the function is completed followed by a value which would be given to the caller. Functions can only return a single value. 

	The return type from the main function is called a status code or an exit code. Returning the exit code 0 means the program ran normally whereas any code other than 0 means an error occurred. If no return statement is given, main() will implicitly return 0.

2.3) - Void Functions (Non Value Returning Functions)
-----------------------------------------------------

	Functions are not required to return a value back to the caller of the function. To tell the compiler that we do not expect to return a value we use the void return type.In these functions we do not even need to specify the return keyword. In a void function you can use return; but this will just exit the function and is redundant. 

	Using void functions, since no value is returned they need to be assigned to a variable in order to be printed with cout. The reason being the compiler has no value to output since its just a function call with no returning value. It would be the same as calling nothing. 

	Obviously it is also an error to try and compile a void function with a return statement and a value. This would conflict with the complier. 

2.4) - Introduction to Function Parameters and Arguments
--------------------------------------------------------

	Passing information to a function being called is referred to as a function parameter. Function parameters are variables that are used in the function header to pass data to the inner parts of the function. 

	When instantiating a function parameters must be initialized with the data type and a psuedo value. When calling the function with a value in the parameter, this is referred to as the argument.When the function is called the parameters of the function are created as variables, and the values are copied into the matching parameter. This is known as pass by value. 

	In certain cases, unreferenced params that are not used. The compiler will warn but not stop the end user program. Function params and return values are very important.

2.5) - Introduction to Local Scope
----------------------------------

	Variables that are defined in the body of a function are called local variables. They are only accessible from within that functions scope. They can be returned by said function to be assigned after the function returns.

	Local variables are created when instantiated in the function header or body, they are alive while the function is executing then destroyed at the end of the function's curly brace. They are destroyed in reverse order of instantiation. 

	The time between creation and destruction of local variables is known as the lifetime of the variable. After destruction, the memory used up by the variable or object will be deallocated. 

	Variables defined in scope are able to be accessed by identifiers. When variables are out of scope they are no longer able to be accessed and will result in a compile time error. Local variables are destroyed when they are out of scope automatically. This also means that names used for functions parameters or variables declared in a function body are only visible within the function that delcares them. This helps keep functions independent.

	When a variable is needed within a function use a function parameter when the caller will pass in the initialization for the variable as an argument. Otherwise, use a local variable. 


2.6) - Why Functions are Useful, and How to Use Them Effectively
----------------------------------------------------------------

Functions are useful for many reasons: 

	* Organization
	* Reusability
	* Testing
	* Extensibility 
	* Abstraction

Basic guidelines for writing functions: 

	Groups of statements that appear more than once should be made into a function. 

	Code that has a well-defined set of inputs and outputs is a good candidate for a 
	function, particular if it is complicated.

	A function should generally perform one (and only one) task. 

	When a function becomes too long, too complicated, or hard to understand, it
	can be split into multiple sub functions. 

2.7) - Forward Declarations and Definitions
-------------------------------------------

	Functions must be instantiated before they are used. When addressing compilation errors, always resolve the first error then the work down that way as it identifies issues like forward declarations.

	Functions will compiler without parameter names and just types names but this is confusing so using parameter names are always best. --> int add(int, int)

	Forward declarations of functions are important though, even without reordering the program to compile. We use forward declarations to instantiate the function to the compiler about its existance in a different code file. This is also very useful for recursive functions that call each other as you cannot reorder the functions. You also do not need to define any parameters in the function in a forward declaration just the type. An example of a forward declaration see Example_1.cc

	Forward declarated functions do not need to be defined in code either to compile and run. If the forward declaration is initialized but never defined there is no issue. However, if the function is called with no definition, the compiler will not throw an error until the function is called. From there it will show that there is an unresolved external function. 

	Forward declaration can also be applied to anything that is being instantiated. Variables can also be declared before they are defined which is helpful to tell the compiler the existance of the variable before we need to assign it any value. You can even do this when the variable is used before it is defined, such as declaring the variable in a function parameter, using it in the body of a function, then after the body of the function instaniating the variable. 

		Decalaration of a variable - Tells the compiler about an identifier and its type

		Definition of a variable - Implements a function or instantiates a variable

		Pure decalration of a variable - A declaration that isn't a definition 

		Initialization - Provides an initial value for a defined object

	The One Definition Rule (ODR) is a well-known rule in C++. THe ODR has 3 parts: 

		1) Within a file, each function, variable, type, or template in a given scope can 
		   only have one definition.

		2) Within a program, each function or variable in a given scope can only have one
		   definition.

		3) Types, templates, inline functions and inline variables are allowed to have 
		   duplicate definitions in different files, so long as each definition is identical.


2.8) Programs with Multiple Code Files
--------------------------------------

	When programs get larger and have multiple code files the main function may call or use forward declaration functions from other files. Using a forward declaration we can let the compiler know about the functions existence before it is called in the main function. Unlike forward declarations in the same file you can use another file with the function definition. 

	Using this method we can give access to other functions that live in another file. 

	C++ is designed so that each source file can be compiled independently, with no knowledge of what is in the other files. Therefore, the order in which files are actually complied should not be relevant. 

2.9) Naming Collisions and an Introduction to Namespaces
--------------------------------------------------------

	C++ requires all identifers be non-ambiguous. An error will be thrown is a naming collision as the compiler cannot tell them apart. If colliding identifiers are introduced into the same file this will result in a compile time error, as well as if the identifiers are introduced into seperate files. 

	To avoid identifiers running into naming collisions, using unique names or understanding the scope of which they are called by the main function will avoid this. A namespace provides a way to disambiguate a function since we can use the namespace scope to declare specifically which function we are referring to. Unless specified, all functions are in the global namespace scope. 

	When using an identifier or function that is defined inside a non-global namspace you need to tell the compiler where the identifier is living using the namespace::identifer syntax. The :: is called the scope resolution operator. It is not advised to use the using namespace directive since it allows us to just call functions without identifying them. 

2.10) Introduction to the Preprocessor
--------------------------------------

	When a program compiles it does not compile the file exactly as it was written. Instead the preprocessing phase is triggered. The preprocessor makes various changes in memory such as removing comments, and processes #include directives. After this process the result is the translation unit which is what is compiled by the compiler. Thus this process is called translation. 

	The preprocessor scans the program looking for preprocessor directives. These are instructions that start with the #. One of these directives is the #include directive which tells the preprocessor to include the contents of the file that comes after the directive. 

	The #define directive can be used to create macros of functions and objects, although functions are generally unsafe and can be used like normal functions that can be used in other files as well. Object like macros can be used to define glocal variables that will be converted implicitly at the preprocessor stage of compliation. This is legacy code as of now any #define directive should be used without substitution text. 

	The conditional compliation preprocessor directives allow for control over what will compile and what wont compile. There are a few conditional complication directives, examples of the most useful: 

		#ifdef - allows the preprocessor to check if an identifer was previously defined via 
			 #define directive. If so the matching #endif is compiled. 
	
		#ifndef - Opposite of ifdef, allows you to check whether an identifier has NOT been 
		    	  defined yet.

		#if 0 - Excludes a block of code until the #endif if complied as a break point. 
			Can be reenabled with #if 1.

		
	One important note of this is that directives ignore scope from local and global functions. You can define macros in functions that are out of scope and use those later, this is because the preprocessor does not follow normal C++ rules. 

2.11) Header Files
------------------

	Header files are marked with the .h or .hpp file extension, they are used to forward declare variables and functions into a code file without writing it all in one file. A simple example is the <iostream> which contains cout and cin. This header file allows us to access and use those functions even though we arent declaring them in our code file. The preprocessor sees them being included with the directive and writes the contents of the header file for use later in the program. 

	When using multiple code files it is important to add the files to the complier so they are able to be compiled and read from one another. This results in the executable in the result. Functions used in different files should also be named the same.  

	Header files consist of two parts. The first being a header guard, and the second being the content of the header file. Using double quotes tells the compiler that this is a custom file,#include "add.h", where as using the angle brackets < > this tells the compiler that these are not user defined header files.

	When header files are compiled any forward declaration is copied into the destination file with the #include directive. If there are two definitions of the function, which is considered unsafe the compiler will understand that the ambiguity is not enough and error. To avoid this all #include files should be header files and not .cpp files. 

2.12) Header Guards
-------------------

	If a function or variable have more than one definition from including multiple header files this will result in an error. To prevent this we use header guards, which are conditional compliation directives that will not complie if multiple definitions are found. All header files should have a header guard on them to prevent multiple definitions. 

	Modern C++ allows for the #pragma directive. This directive will allow you to use the same functionality of header guards by stating the amount of copies that are allowed such as #pragma once. Most IDE's do this for you on creation of the header file. 

2.13) How to Design Your First Programs
---------------------------------------

	Programs should be designed before the code is actually written to avoid bloat and clear definitions of what task need to be handled. The following are general steps and help to design programs: 

	1) Define your goal of the program: 

		Defining your goal will organize the task that have to be fixed and the outcome that the user will see when the program is finished,
		this will help us understand what the final product will look like after all the remaining task will be complete giving us a rough idea of the result. 

	2) Define requirements: 

		Understanding the goal of the program is just a part of the picture. Writing out the steps and task to accomplish to get there will keep the code
		on track and less verbose. A single problem could have many requirements but its good to have to prevent edge cases. 

	3) Define your tools, targets, and backup plan: 

		Defining the architecture of how the program will run, scale, etc. if critical. Defining the tech stack helps understand the need that each tool will 
		satisfy. 

	4) Break hard problems down into easy problems: 

		Using a top down method of problem solving will allow the harder problems to be broken down into smaller pieces. This allows us to tackle the smaller issues
		one at a time until the solution is reached. 

	5) Figure out the sequence of events: 

		Understanding the order of events in which the program will run helps understand how things will run together. This avoids bugs and helps avoid issues 
		with recursive programs. 

	
			
