
----- Basics -----

1.1) Statement and the structure of a program

> Introduction: 

	In this chapter, we cover the basics to every C++ program. Because the topics are very numerous and hard to cover all them these are split up to optimize the topic. Later topics will be explored in more detail as they are covered. 

> Statements:


	A compute program is a sequence of instructions that tell the computer what to do. A statement is a type of instruction that causes the program to perform specific actions.Statments are the most common type of instruction in a C++ program. This is because they are the smallest independent unit of computation in C++. Most, but not all, statements in C++ end in a semicolon. C++ is compiled into many machine language instructions from statements. 

	For advanced readers: 

		- Declaration statements
		- Jump statements 
		- Expression statements
		- Compound statements
		- Selection statements (conditionals)
		- Iteration statements (loops)
		- Try blocks

> Functions and the main function:

	In C++, statements are typically grouped into units called functions. A function is a collection of statements that get executed sequentially (in order, from top to bottom). As you learn to write your own programs, you'll be able to create your own functions and mix and match statements in any way you please (we'll show how a future lession).

When the program is run, the statements inside of main are executred in sequential order. Programs usually terminate after the last statement inside main has been executed, even though some may abort early. Functions will typically be to perform specific parts of a task.

> Characters and text

	Early computers were just text calculations. In modern times they are designed for much more complex task such as typing written languages. These are called strings. 

> Dissecting Hello World!

	#include <iostream>

	int main() { 

		std::cout << "Hello World!!";
		return 0;
	}

	Line 1 shows a special line called the preprocessor directive. This #includes preprocessor directive indicates that we want the standard iostream library. We need this for the cout to print to console. 

	Line 2 is blank, and is ignored by the compiler. This line exists only to help huamns read the code.

	Line 3 tells the complier that we're going to write (define) a function whose name (identifier) is main. As stated before the program must have a main function so the complier has an entry. This function will produce a number which is why we initialize the function with int and return 0; 

	Lines 4 and 7 denote the curly braces showing what will be contained inside of the main function. 

	Line 5 is the first statment in the main function. std::cout or standard::character out, outputs information to the console. In this case it will be Hello World!!

	Line 6 is a return statement. This sends an alert to the OS that the function is exiting. The value 0 is the standard sucess value which lets the OS know that the function executed successfully. 

> Syntax and syntax errors

	Rules that programs follow are designed around certain spaces and symbols. This is called syntax. The C++ programming language syntax describes how elements must be written and arranged in order for the program to be considered valid and run. Otherwise this is considered a syntax error. 

1.2) Comments

	A comment is a programmer readable note that is used to inform readers of blocks of code. This note is not recognized by the complier so syntax constraints do not apply. 

> Single line comments

	Single line comments only apply to individual lines in the progam. These are used for short notes or commenting out peices of code. Single lined comments are written by using the // syntax.

> Multi line comments

	Multi-line comments are used for commenting many lines without using the // operator for each line. Often lines are numerous so using a multi-lined comment is beneficial for reading programs or putting extensive notes. The operator used to do this is the /* */. Everything inside of the two stars will be commented. 

1.3) Introduction to objects and variables

> Data and values

	In 1.1, we discussed that programs are just instructions and statements, and that functions are just collections of statements that handle specific parts of the functions. Programs actually produce results by manipulating data, data being any information that can be moved, written, and stored. 

	A program can acquire data to work with in many ways, such as a file, database, network etc. A single peice of this data is called a value or data value. Common examples are numbers, single characters ('') , or text (""). 

	Values placed directly into the code are called literals. Literals are covered in detail in 5.2. Literals are the easiest way to provide raw values for your program, but they have shortcomings. Literals are read-only values, so their values can't be modified. 

> Random Access Memory 

	The main memory in a computer is called Random Access Memory (RAM). When programs run the operating system loads the program into RAM. Any data that is hardcoded into the program is loaded at this point. 

	The OS also allocate some additional RAM for the program to use while it runs. Common uses for this memory are to store values entered by the user, to store data read in from a file or network, or to store values calculated while the program is running so they can be used again later. RAM can be thought of as a series of numbered boxes that can be used to store data while the program is running. 

> Objects and Variables

	
